.TH dhcpy6d 8 "Jun 27, 2014" "" "dhcpy6d"

.SH NAME

dhcpy6d - MAC address aware DHCPv6 server

.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBdhcpy6d\fP
[\fB\-c\fR \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-u\fR \fIuser\fR]
[\fB\-g\fR \fIgroup\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dhcpy6d
is an open source server for DHCPv6, the DHCP protocol for IPv6.
.PP
Its development is driven by the need to be able to use the existing
IPv4 infrastructure in coexistence with IPv6.  In a dualstack
scenario, the existing DHCPv4 most probably uses MAC addresses of
clients to identify them.  This is not intended by RFC 3315 for
DHCPv6, but also not forbidden.  Dhcpy6d is able to do so in local
network segments and therefore offers a pragmatical method for
parallel use of DHCPv4 and DHCPv6, because existing client management
solutions could be used further.
.PP
.B dhcpy6d
comes with the following features:
.br
.I \fR * identifies clients by MAC address, DUID or hostname
.br
.I \fR * generates addresses randomly, by MAC address, by range or by given ID
.br
.I \fR * filters clients by MAC, DUID or hostname
.br
.I \fR * assigns multiple addresses per client
.br
.I \fR * allows to organize clients in different classes
.br
.I \fR * stores leases in MySQL or SQLite database
.br
.I \fR * client information can be retrieved from database or textfile
.br
.I \fR * dynamically updates DNS (Bind)
.br
.I \fR * supports rapid commit
.br
.I \fR * listens on multiple interfaces
.br

.SH OPTIONS

Most configuration is done via the configuration file.

.TP
.BR \-c, " \-\-config=\fIconfigfile\fR
Set the configuration file to use. Default is /etc/dhcpy6d.conf.
.TP
.BR \-u, " \-\-user=\fIuser\fR
Set the unprivileged user to be used.
.TP
.BR \-g, " \-\-group=\fIgroup\fR
Set the unprivileged group to be used.

.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/dhcpy6d.conf
/etc/dhcpy6d-clients.conf
/var/lib/dhcpy6d/
/var/log/dhcpy6d.log


.SH AUTHOR

Copyright (C) 2012-2014 Henri Wahl <\fBh.wahl@ifw-dresden.de\fP>

.SH LICENSE

This program is free software; you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be
useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied
warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
License along with this package; if not, write to the Free
Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor,
Boston, MA  02110-1301 USA

On Debian systems, the full text of the GNU General Public
License version 2 can be found in the file
`/usr/share/common-licenses/GPL-2'.

.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
.BR dhcpy6d.conf (5)
.BR dhcpy6d-clients.conf (5)
https://dhcpy6d.ifw-dresden.de
https://github.com/HenriWahl/dhcpy6d
